Are you able to use sonarqube to analyze your code?
	analyze what type of code. we have seen a java code being analyzed.

what type of analysis we do using sonarqube?
	bugs			potential bugs
	code smells		improper coding standards
	code coverage		lack of unit testing
	cyclomatic complexity	duplicate code
		if(true)
			return something;
		else
			return somethingelse;

	spaghetti design	insufficient or too many comments
	code debt		time required to repair this code






System.out.println
	we can use logger instead of syso

	syso is specific to a particular type of project. 		Console application
	suppose, if this class and method is used in a web application, then syso is irrelavent


GoF	Gang of Four

principle:		Open to extension, Close to modification
			ready to extend existing classes. Create sub classes, then ok
			does not encourage modification		

Design Patterns - Creational	Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Builder
Design Patterns - Structural
Design Patterns - Behavioral



Singleton
		where did you find this singleton earlier?
		Singleton	vs	Prototype

what is singleton?
	only 1 instance available for a class, then that class is a singleton class
	not that we create one instance. that 1 instance is available. we can get instance

example for singleton class?
	Runtime class
	we cannot create an object of runtime. we can only get instance of runtime


To make a class as singleton
	1) restrict from creating objects		(make the constructor, private)
	2) lets create an object inside the class itself	(this is the single instance)
	3) make this object available using a method


class Star
{
	//how to make this a singleton class
	private static Star star=new Star();
	private Star()
	{
		
	}
	public static Star getStar()
	{
		return star;
	}
	public void display()
	{
		System.out.println("Star class display method is called");
	}
}


Creational pattern
------------------
	decides how the instance of a class is created
	
Factory
	in hibernate, hope you have seen	SessionFactory
	
	session=sf.openSession();
	session=new Session();			NO


	ApplicationContext ctx=new ClassPathXMLApplicationContext();

--------------------------SOLID principles-----------------

Single Responsibility Principle (SRP);
Open Closed Principle (OCP);
Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP);
Interface Segregation Principle (ISP);
Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP);



Single Responsibility Principle 
	servlets and JSP

<FORM action="student">
	ID:.....
	First Namer:...........
	.....
	ADD	UPDATE	DELETE	FIND		
</FORM>





ALL THESE SUBMIT buttons post the form to a "single" servlet.

	in the servlet, we find which button was clicked
		//for finding a student, only student ID is enough. But there will be 
		request.getParameter("ID");
		requ.....	("FIRSTNAME");			//everything	 unnecessarily

	switch(op)
	{
		case "ADD":
			///code to add a student
		break;
		
	}


this is a poor coding.	
	Because, a single servlet is handling multiple responsibilities


same scenario in our MVC project:

class StudentController
{
	
	public void add(){}
	public void update(){}
}


here, in MVC, each method is responsible for only 1 task



 opened for extensibility, but closed for modification.


class Student
{
	private int id;
	private String firstName;
	private Date dob;
	
	public Student(){}
	public Student(int id, String firstName, Date dob)
	{}

	public Student(int id, String firstName, String dob)
	{
		SimpleDateFormat		that converts String into date
	}
	public Student(String firstName, String dob){}
}



remember, i did not modify the constructor which already was there. I just added another constructor.

because, already somebody would have used the existing constructor. if i modify, then their code will be affected


awt
	Button

	JButton			(remember they did not modify Button class. They introduced a new class)


Browser
	has	title bar
		menu bar
		status bar
		tool bar


since, in c++ multiple inheritance

Browser : title, menu, status, tool

Browser is a kind of title bar?			NEVER

this is a poor abstraction


Browser	vs Title		should be composition relationship	because, title bar cannot exist independently
	
	aggregation


Inheritance
Aggregation
Composition
Utilization

if these relationships are wrongly implemented then it is suggested to do LSP review

Functional Interface	
	only 1 abstract method				Runnable
Marker Interface
	no abstract methods		ex:		Serializable

interface Person
{
	void speak();				//this is an abstract method
	default void walk()
	{
		syso	person walks		//this is not an abstract method
	}
	static void run()
	{
		syso person runs		//this is not an abstract method
	}
}

but Person is a functional interface		because, there is only 1 abstract method


we should not force anybody to implement methods which they DO NOT NEED
	better to create interfaces with minimum abstract methods

	so that they have choice or choose right combination of interfaces



EJB
	Session bean there were 7 methods to override
		providing only empty implementations of these 7 methods
		
	passivate(){}
	activate(){}
	destroy(){}
	init(){}


swing GUI 
	ActionListener

	WindowAdapters			a class that provides empty implementation


Repo		is an interface


autowiring
	qualifier


dao
	jdbc template		dataSource
	hibernate template	dataSource



	JDBC template
		datasource			//interface

DriverManagerDataSource				implementation of Data source


class A
{
	B b;			B is a class, then A and B are tightly coupled
}


class Car
{
	Audio a;		if Audio is a class, then your car always comes with a specific audio system.
}


class Car
{
	Audio a;		if audio is an interface. You have choice
}


IoC			the car manufacturer, give you the ownership or choice to decide which implementation you want




SRP, OCP, DIP, LSP, ISP
SRP, OCP, LSP, ISP, DIP		SOLID



MVC
DAO
VO


1. Enhances code readability

Design patterns help to speed up software development by providing tested development paradigms. Software design involves considering small issues that might become visible later during the implementation process. Reusable design patterns help to correct subtle problems and enhance code readability.

2. Robust

Besides improving code readability, design patterns allow architects to communicate clearly with well-defined names for enhancing software interaction. Design patterns are often improved in the long run to suit specific demands, making them robust.

3. Solutions to specific problems

Often, many people only know how to use specific software tools to solve certain problems. Although design patterns offer general solutions to aid in the implementation process, some techniques may be tailored to suit specific needs.

4. Simplify the coding process

Since it is difficult to understand C# or Java without prior knowledge of web development and object oriented design, you need to familiarize yourself with basic design patterns. For instance, if you have done a course in web development it will be easier for you to divide a task into pieces, each with its own specific responsibilities.

5. Enhances software development

Besides giving you the knowledge on how to handle development tools, design patterns help to enhance software reusability and development. In other words, a design pattern is the main component in software development. Better understanding of how design patterns relate to each other will help enhance software development.

While design patterns attempt to improve standardized practices in software development, architects argue that certain patterns often lead to code duplication.

Design Patterns - Creational
Design Patterns - Structural
Design Patterns - Behavioral


Creational
	Singleton
	Factory
		pattern solves the issues related to creation of the objects
		instead of allowing users to create objects, they are suggested to get instances from the Factory

	AbstractFactory
		

HibernateTemplate
	SessionFactory


i have choice
	LocalSessionFactory		is a kind of SessionFactory



Interface
	separates the definition of a class from its implementation

DaoImpl
	and extracted an interface from the class



ctx.buildSessionFactory



WindowsListener		interface


Adapter, Decorator, Bridge, Façade


Adapter: Adapts one interface for a class into one that a client expects
Bridge: Decouple an abstraction from its implementation so that the two can vary independently
Composite: A tree structure of objects where every object has the same interface
Decorator : Add additional functionality to a class at runtime where subclassing would result in an exponential rise of new classes
Facade: Create a simplified interface of an existing interface to ease usage for common tasks
Flyweight: A high quantity of objects share a common properties object to save space
Proxy: A class functioning as an interface to another thing



Design Patterns - 
Behavioral	
	Chain of Responsibility, 
	Command,  
	Mediator, 
	Observer, 
	Iterator, 
	Strategy, 
	State


Chain of Responsibility		(controller)
-----------------------
In this the request we pass goes through a chain of handlers.
And the handlers decides to process the request or pass it.

Command			(controller)
----------
It transforms the request into stand alone object which we can pass as method arguments.	
	what happens when an exception occurs?????
		throw new ArithmeticException("Description of the exception occurred");

Mediator		(controller)
---------
It is uses to reduce the dependency between objects. So that the objects cannot directly communicate with eachother and for communication they requires a mediator object.

Observer		(view)			
---------
It is used to notify other objects about any events that happen to the object.

Iterator			iterators
--------
It helps in traversing elements of collection without giving the traversing representation.

Strategy			Collections.sort		works on another object (collection)	(Comparable)
---------
It defines a set of algorithms which are put in seperate class so that we can use their objects interchangeable and they all implement the Strategy interface.

State
------
It allows an object to alter its behavior when internal state changes. It is like the object has changed its class.

lambda
stream API			works on collections		filter		sort		group

